docs/sphinx/citation.rst, before:


.. _marvin-citation:

Acknowledging and Citing Marvin
-------------------------------



In Publications
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you use Marvin (including the `web interface <https://dr15.sdss.org/marvin>`_) for work/research presented in a publication (whether directly, or as a dependency to another package), we ask that you cite the `Marvin Software <https://zenodo.org/record/596700>`_. We provide the following as a standard acknowledgment you can use if there is not a specific place to cite the DOI:

    *This research made use of Marvin, a core Python package and web framework for MaNGA data, developed by Brian Cherinka,
    José Sánchez-Gallego, Brett Andrews, and Joel Brownstein. (MaNGA Collaboration, 2018).*

Marvin's Bibtex entry to use::

    @ARTICLE{2018arXiv181203833C,
       author = {{Cherinka}, B. and {Andrews}, B.~H. and {S{\'a}nchez-Gallego}, J. and
    	{Brownstein}, J. and {Argudo-Fern{\'a}ndez}, M. and {Blanton}, M. and
    	{Bundy}, K. and {Jones}, A. and {Masters}, K. and {Law}, D.~R. and
    	{Rowlands}, K. and {Weijmans}, A.-M. and {Westfall}, K. and
    	{Yan}, R.},
        title = "{Marvin: A Toolkit for Streamlined Access and Visualization of the SDSS-IV MaNGA Data Set}",
      journal = {arXiv e-prints},
    archivePrefix = "arXiv",
       eprint = {1812.03833},
     primaryClass = "astro-ph.IM",
     keywords = {Astrophysics - Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics, Astrophysics - Astrophysics of Galaxies},
         year = 2018,
        month = dec,
       adsurl = {http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018arXiv181203833C},
      adsnote = {Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System}
    }

If you wish, you can also include a link to http://sdss-marvin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/ in addition to the above text.

In Presentations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Please provide a link to the Marvin website: https://dr15.sdss.org/marvin/
* Please include an installation reference: `pip install sdss-marvin`


.. If you are using Marvin as part of a code project (e.g., affiliated packages), a useful way to acknowledge your use of Marvin is with a badge in your README. We suggest this badge:

Commit message:

Removes Marvin acknowledgement in favor of a citation to the paper.

docs/sphinx/citation.rst, after:


.. _marvin-citation:

Acknowledging and Citing Marvin
-------------------------------



In Publications
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you use Marvin (including the `web interface <https://dr15.sdss.org/marvin>`_) for work/research presented in a publication (whether directly, or as a dependency to another package), we ask that you cite the `Marvin paper <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018arXiv181203833C>`_ with the following bibtex entry::

    @ARTICLE{2018arXiv181203833C,
       author = {{Cherinka}, B. and {Andrews}, B.~H. and {S{\'a}nchez-Gallego}, J. and
    	{Brownstein}, J. and {Argudo-Fern{\'a}ndez}, M. and {Blanton}, M. and
    	{Bundy}, K. and {Jones}, A. and {Masters}, K. and {Law}, D.~R. and
    	{Rowlands}, K. and {Weijmans}, A.-M. and {Westfall}, K. and
    	{Yan}, R.},
        title = "{Marvin: A Toolkit for Streamlined Access and Visualization of the SDSS-IV MaNGA Data Set}",
      journal = {arXiv e-prints},
    archivePrefix = "arXiv",
       eprint = {1812.03833},
     primaryClass = "astro-ph.IM",
     keywords = {Astrophysics - Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics, Astrophysics - Astrophysics of Galaxies},
         year = 2018,
        month = dec,
       adsurl = {http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018arXiv181203833C},
      adsnote = {Provided by the SAO/NASA Astrophysics Data System}
    }

For AAS publications, please see their `software citation guidelines <https://journals.aas.org/policy-statement-on-software/>`_.  If you wish, you can also include a link to the Marvin documentation http://sdss-marvin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/, the web interface https://dr15.sdss.org/marvin, or the Zenodo DOI https://zenodo.org/record/596700.


In Presentations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Please provide a link to the Marvin website: https://dr15.sdss.org/marvin/
* Please include an installation reference: `pip install sdss-marvin`


.. If you are using Marvin as part of a code project (e.g., affiliated packages), a useful way to acknowledge your use of Marvin is with a badge in your README. We suggest this badge:
