docs/sphinx/tools/maps.rst, before:

.. _marvin-maps:

Maps
====

`Maps` and `Map` objects form a hierarchy:

* :ref:`marvin-maps`: set of DAP maps for a galaxy (analogous to a DAP MAPS FITS file),
* :ref:`marvin-map`: an individual map, and
* :ref:`marvin-enhancedmap`: an individual map modified by map arithmetic.


`~marvin.tools.maps.Maps` is a class to interact with the set of DAP maps for a galaxy. For a general introduction to Marvin Tools, check out the :ref:`galaxy-tools` section.  Here we will revisit those features and will expand on some specifics of the `~marvin.tools.maps.Maps` class.

.. _marvin-maps-initializing:

Initializing a Maps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A `Maps` can be initialized by filename, plateifu, or mangaid.

**Filename**:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps(filename='/Users/username/manga/spectro/analysis/v2_4_3/2.2.1/HYB10-GAU-MILESHC/8485/1901/manga-8485-1901-MAPS-HYB10-GAU-MILESHC.fits.gz')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='file', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

Either the full path or the path relative to the current working directory is required.  A `Maps` initialized from a file will always be in `local` mode.

**Plateifu** or **Mangaid**:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps(plateifu='8485-1901')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

    >>> maps = Maps(mangaid='1-209232')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

Marvin first attempts to find the data in a local database, otherwise will retrieve the data in `remote` mode.

**Smart Galaxy Lookup**

You can also initialize a `Maps` without the `filename` or a galaxy identifier (`plateifu`/`mangaid`) keyword argument, and Marvin will attempt to parse the input and find the desired galaxy:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps('8485-1901')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

**Bintype**

The default `Maps` bintype is `HYB10`, where the stellar continuum analysis of spectra is Voronoi binned to S/N~10 for the stellar kinematics; however, the emission line measurements are performed on the individual spaxels.  You can specify a different binning scheme with the `bintype` keyword (currently, the only other option is `VOR10`, which does the stellar continuum and emission line analyses on spectra Voronoi binned to S/N~10):

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps('8485-1901', bintype='HYB10')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

**Template**

Currently, the only template available is `GAU-MILESHC`, which is selected by default.


.. _marvin-maps-basic:

Basic Attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Like `Cubes`, `Maps` come with some basic attributes attached (e.g., the full header, the WCS info, the bintype and template) plus the NSA and DAPall catalog parameters.

.. code-block:: python

    # access the header
    >>> maps.header

    # access the wcs
    >>> maps.wcs

    # the NSA catalog information
    >>> maps.nsa['z']
    0.0407447

    # the DAPall catalog info
    >>> maps.dapall['sfr_tot']
    0.132697

`Maps` also has the DAP data quality, targeting, and pixel masks available as the `quality_flag`, `target_flags`, and `pixmask` attributes, respectively.  These are represented as :ref:`Maskbit <marvin-utils-maskbit>` objects.


.. _marvin-maps-datamodel:

Maps DataModel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :ref:`DAP datamodel <marvin-datamodels>` is attached to `Maps` as the `datamodel` attribute.  The datamodel describes the contents of the MaNGA DAP Maps, for a given release, and contains a list of `Properties` associated with a `Maps`.  This is a subset of the full DAP datamodel only pertaining to Maps.

.. code-block:: python

    # display the datamodel for maps properties
    >>> maps.datamodel
    [<Property 'spx_skycoo', channel='on_sky_x', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_skycoo', channel='on_sky_y', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_ellcoo', channel='elliptical_radius', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_ellcoo', channel='elliptical_azimuth', release='2.1.3', unit=u'deg'>,
     <Property 'spx_mflux', channel='None', release='2.1.3', unit=u'1e-17 erg / (cm2 s spaxel)'>,
     <Property 'spx_snr', channel='None', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='binned_spectra', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='stellar_continua', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='em_line_moments', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='em_line_models', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='spectral_indices', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     ...
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='tio2sdss', release='2.1.3', unit=u'Angstrom'>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='d4000', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='dn4000', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='tiocvd', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>]

Each `Property` in the datamodel describes an available `Map` inside the `Maps` container, and has a channel, units, and a description.  You can fuzzy search through the list to identify maps:

.. code-block:: python

    # find the H-alpha Gaussian flux property
    >>> maps.datamodel['gflux_ha']
    <Property 'emline_gflux', channel='ha_6564', release='2.1.3', unit=u'1e-17 erg / (cm2 s spaxel)'>


.. _marvin-maps-access-map:

Accessing an Individual Map
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `Property`s provide an interface to extract and create an individual `Map`. You can select an individual `Map` in one of four ways:

* exact key slicing,
* dot syntax,
* `getMap` method, or
* fuzzy key slicing.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from marvin.tools import Maps
    >>> maps = Maps(plateifu='8485-1901')

    # exact key slicing
    >>> ha = maps['emline_gflux_ha_6564']

    # dot syntax
    >>> ha = maps.emline_gflux_ha_6564

    # getMap()
    >>> ha = maps.getMap('emline_gflux_ha_6564')
    # equivalently
    >>> ha = maps.getMap('emline_gflux', channel='ha_6564')

    # fuzzy key slicing
    >>> ha = maps['gflux ha']


Fuzzy key slicing works if the input is unambiguously associated with a particular key:

.. code-block:: python

    # Unambiguous inputs
    >>> maps['gflux ha']        # == maps['emline_gflux_ha_6564']
    >>> maps['gvel oiii 5008']  # == maps[emline_gvel_oiii_5008]
    >>> maps['stellar sig']     # == maps['stellar_sigma']

    # Ambiguous inputs
    # There are several velocity properties (stellar and emission lines).
    >>> maps['vel']  # ValueError

    # There are two [O III] lines.
    >>> maps['gflux oiii']  # ValueError


.. _marvin-maps-access-spaxel:

Accessing an Individual Spaxel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Slicing a `Maps` returns a `Spaxel` object with all of its properties:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> sp = maps[9, 10]
    >>> print(sp)
    <Marvin Spaxel (plateifu=8485-1901, x=10, y=9; x_cen=-7, y_cen=-8, loaded=maps)>


.. _marvin-maps-binids:

Getting Bin IDs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For binned `Maps`, you can retrieve a `Map` of the bin IDs directly from the `binid_*` attributes.  There are five types of bin IDs, designated as `binid_[name]`.  You can list them from the datamodel:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.datamodel.parent['binid']
    <MultiChannelProperty 'binid', release='2.2.1', channels=['binned_spectra', 'stellar_continua', 'em_line_moments', 'em_line_models', 'spectral_indices']>

They are available as attributes.

.. code-block:: python

    # get a Map of the binned_spectra binids
    >>> maps.binid_binned_spectra
    <Marvin Map (property='binid_binned_spectra')>
    [[-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     ...,
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]]

You can also retrieve a 2-d array of the bin IDs using the `get_binid` method.  By default, `get_binid` will return the bin IDs for the `binned_spectra` channel of **BINID**.

.. code-block:: python

    # get the default binids
    >>> maps.get_binid()
    <Marvin Map (property='binid_binned_spectra')>
    [[-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     ...
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]]

    # equivalent
    >>> stvel_binids = maps.get_binid(property=maps.datamodel.stellar_vel)


.. _marvin-maps-access-objects:

Accessing Other Marvin Objects for the Same Galaxy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can grab the associated DRP `Cube` with `getCube`:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.getCube()
    <Marvin Cube (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='remote', data_origin='api')>

or the `Modelcube` object using the `getModelCube` method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.getModelCube()
    <Marvin ModelCube (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='remote', data_origin='api', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>


.. _marvin-maps-save:

Saving and Restoring
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can save a `Maps` locally as a Python pickle object, using the `save` method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.save('mymaps.mpf')

Your saved `Maps` can be restored as a `Maps` object using the `restore` class method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from marvin.tools import Maps
    >>> maps = Maps.restore('mymaps.mpf')


.. _marvin-maps-bpt:

BPT Diagram
^^^^^^^^^^^
You can create a :ref:`BPT<marvin-bpt>` diagram:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> masks, fig, axes = maps.get_bpt()

Reference/API
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. rubric:: Class Inheritance Diagram

.. inheritance-diagram:: marvin.tools.maps.Maps

.. rubric:: Class

.. autosummary:: marvin.tools.maps.Maps

.. rubric:: Methods

.. autosummary::

    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_binid
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_unbinned
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_bpt
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getCube
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getModelCube
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getSpaxel
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getMap
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getMapRatio
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.download
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.save
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.restore

|

Commit message:

Update maps.rst: fuzzy string-matching discussion
Add discussion of fuzzy string-matching to maps.rst, including an example silent failure matching 'H-beta' to 'Heta_3836'

docs/sphinx/tools/maps.rst, after:

.. _marvin-maps:

Maps
====

`Maps` and `Map` objects form a hierarchy:

* :ref:`marvin-maps`: set of DAP maps for a galaxy (analogous to a DAP MAPS FITS file),
* :ref:`marvin-map`: an individual map, and
* :ref:`marvin-enhancedmap`: an individual map modified by map arithmetic.


`~marvin.tools.maps.Maps` is a class to interact with the set of DAP maps for a galaxy. For a general introduction to Marvin Tools, check out the :ref:`galaxy-tools` section.  Here we will revisit those features and will expand on some specifics of the `~marvin.tools.maps.Maps` class.

.. _marvin-maps-initializing:

Initializing a Maps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A `Maps` can be initialized by filename, plateifu, or mangaid.

**Filename**:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps(filename='/Users/username/manga/spectro/analysis/v2_4_3/2.2.1/HYB10-GAU-MILESHC/8485/1901/manga-8485-1901-MAPS-HYB10-GAU-MILESHC.fits.gz')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='file', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

Either the full path or the path relative to the current working directory is required.  A `Maps` initialized from a file will always be in `local` mode.

**Plateifu** or **Mangaid**:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps(plateifu='8485-1901')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

    >>> maps = Maps(mangaid='1-209232')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

Marvin first attempts to find the data in a local database, otherwise will retrieve the data in `remote` mode.

**Smart Galaxy Lookup**

You can also initialize a `Maps` without the `filename` or a galaxy identifier (`plateifu`/`mangaid`) keyword argument, and Marvin will attempt to parse the input and find the desired galaxy:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps('8485-1901')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

**Bintype**

The default `Maps` bintype is `HYB10`, where the stellar continuum analysis of spectra is Voronoi binned to S/N~10 for the stellar kinematics; however, the emission line measurements are performed on the individual spaxels.  You can specify a different binning scheme with the `bintype` keyword (currently, the only other option is `VOR10`, which does the stellar continuum and emission line analyses on spectra Voronoi binned to S/N~10):

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps = Maps('8485-1901', bintype='HYB10')
    >>> maps
    <Marvin Maps (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='local', data_origin='db', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>

**Template**

Currently, the only template available is `GAU-MILESHC`, which is selected by default.


.. _marvin-maps-basic:

Basic Attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Like `Cubes`, `Maps` come with some basic attributes attached (e.g., the full header, the WCS info, the bintype and template) plus the NSA and DAPall catalog parameters.

.. code-block:: python

    # access the header
    >>> maps.header

    # access the wcs
    >>> maps.wcs

    # the NSA catalog information
    >>> maps.nsa['z']
    0.0407447

    # the DAPall catalog info
    >>> maps.dapall['sfr_tot']
    0.132697

`Maps` also has the DAP data quality, targeting, and pixel masks available as the `quality_flag`, `target_flags`, and `pixmask` attributes, respectively.  These are represented as :ref:`Maskbit <marvin-utils-maskbit>` objects.


.. _marvin-maps-datamodel:

Maps DataModel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :ref:`DAP datamodel <marvin-datamodels>` is attached to `Maps` as the `datamodel` attribute.  The datamodel describes the contents of the MaNGA DAP Maps, for a given release, and contains a list of `Properties` associated with a `Maps`.  This is a subset of the full DAP datamodel only pertaining to Maps.

.. code-block:: python

    # display the datamodel for maps properties
    >>> maps.datamodel
    [<Property 'spx_skycoo', channel='on_sky_x', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_skycoo', channel='on_sky_y', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_ellcoo', channel='elliptical_radius', release='2.1.3', unit=u'arcsec'>,
     <Property 'spx_ellcoo', channel='elliptical_azimuth', release='2.1.3', unit=u'deg'>,
     <Property 'spx_mflux', channel='None', release='2.1.3', unit=u'1e-17 erg / (cm2 s spaxel)'>,
     <Property 'spx_snr', channel='None', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='binned_spectra', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='stellar_continua', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='em_line_moments', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='em_line_models', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'binid', channel='spectral_indices', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     ...
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='tio2sdss', release='2.1.3', unit=u'Angstrom'>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='d4000', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='dn4000', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>,
     <Property 'specindex_corr', channel='tiocvd', release='2.1.3', unit=u''>]

Each `Property` in the datamodel describes an available `Map` inside the `Maps` container, and has a channel, units, and a description.  You can fuzzy search through the list to identify maps:

.. code-block:: python

    # find the H-alpha Gaussian flux property
    >>> maps.datamodel['gflux_ha']
    <Property 'emline_gflux', channel='ha_6564', release='2.1.3', unit=u'1e-17 erg / (cm2 s spaxel)'>


.. _marvin-maps-access-map:

Accessing an Individual Map
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `Property`s provide an interface to extract and create an individual `Map`. You can select an individual `Map` in one of four ways:

* exact key slicing,
* dot syntax,
* `getMap` method, or
* fuzzy key slicing.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from marvin.tools import Maps
    >>> maps = Maps(plateifu='8485-1901')

    # exact key slicing
    >>> ha = maps['emline_gflux_ha_6564']

    # dot syntax
    >>> ha = maps.emline_gflux_ha_6564

    # getMap()
    >>> ha = maps.getMap('emline_gflux_ha_6564')
    # equivalently
    >>> ha = maps.getMap('emline_gflux', channel='ha_6564')

    # fuzzy key slicing
    >>> ha = maps['gflux ha']


Fuzzy key slicing works if the input is unambiguously associated with a particular key:

.. code-block:: python

    # Unambiguous inputs
    >>> maps['gflux ha']        # == maps['emline_gflux_ha_6564']
    >>> maps['gvel oiii 5008']  # == maps[emline_gvel_oiii_5008]
    >>> maps['stellar sig']     # == maps['stellar_sigma']

    # Ambiguous inputs
    # There are several velocity properties (stellar and emission lines).
    >>> maps['vel']  # ValueError

    # There are two [O III] lines.
    >>> maps['gflux oiii']  # ValueError

.. warning:: Fuzzy key slicing is *textual, not contextual*, so sometimes inputs will be matched to unexpected keys.
  Fuzzy string matching can be fooled!

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.getMap('emline_gflux', 'H-beta')         # target channel: Hb_4862
    <Marvin Map (property='emline_gflux_heta_3836')>  # actual channel: Heta_3836
    
In this case, the input `'H-beta'` is supplied by the user with the understanding that the Balmer beta line at 4862 Angstroms is being requested. Unfortunately, that input matches more closely to they key `'Heta_3836'` than it does to `'Hb-4862'`, but the match to `'Hb-4862'` is not strong enough for the input to be labeled as ambiguous and raise an exception. When developing analysis scripts, check your inputs carefully, and make sure that data retrieval making use of fuzzy string-matching retrieves the correct channels!

.. _marvin-maps-access-spaxel:

Accessing an Individual Spaxel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Slicing a `Maps` returns a `Spaxel` object with all of its properties:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> sp = maps[9, 10]
    >>> print(sp)
    <Marvin Spaxel (plateifu=8485-1901, x=10, y=9; x_cen=-7, y_cen=-8, loaded=maps)>


.. _marvin-maps-binids:

Getting Bin IDs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For binned `Maps`, you can retrieve a `Map` of the bin IDs directly from the `binid_*` attributes.  There are five types of bin IDs, designated as `binid_[name]`.  You can list them from the datamodel:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.datamodel.parent['binid']
    <MultiChannelProperty 'binid', release='2.2.1', channels=['binned_spectra', 'stellar_continua', 'em_line_moments', 'em_line_models', 'spectral_indices']>

They are available as attributes.

.. code-block:: python

    # get a Map of the binned_spectra binids
    >>> maps.binid_binned_spectra
    <Marvin Map (property='binid_binned_spectra')>
    [[-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     ...,
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ..., -1. -1. -1.]]

You can also retrieve a 2-d array of the bin IDs using the `get_binid` method.  By default, `get_binid` will return the bin IDs for the `binned_spectra` channel of **BINID**.

.. code-block:: python

    # get the default binids
    >>> maps.get_binid()
    <Marvin Map (property='binid_binned_spectra')>
    [[-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     ...
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]
     [-1. -1. -1. ... -1. -1. -1.]]

    # equivalent
    >>> stvel_binids = maps.get_binid(property=maps.datamodel.stellar_vel)


.. _marvin-maps-access-objects:

Accessing Other Marvin Objects for the Same Galaxy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can grab the associated DRP `Cube` with `getCube`:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.getCube()
    <Marvin Cube (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='remote', data_origin='api')>

or the `Modelcube` object using the `getModelCube` method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.getModelCube()
    <Marvin ModelCube (plateifu='8485-1901', mode='remote', data_origin='api', bintype='HYB10', template='GAU-MILESHC')>


.. _marvin-maps-save:

Saving and Restoring
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can save a `Maps` locally as a Python pickle object, using the `save` method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> maps.save('mymaps.mpf')

Your saved `Maps` can be restored as a `Maps` object using the `restore` class method:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from marvin.tools import Maps
    >>> maps = Maps.restore('mymaps.mpf')


.. _marvin-maps-bpt:

BPT Diagram
^^^^^^^^^^^
You can create a :ref:`BPT<marvin-bpt>` diagram:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> masks, fig, axes = maps.get_bpt()

Reference/API
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. rubric:: Class Inheritance Diagram

.. inheritance-diagram:: marvin.tools.maps.Maps

.. rubric:: Class

.. autosummary:: marvin.tools.maps.Maps

.. rubric:: Methods

.. autosummary::

    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_binid
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_unbinned
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.get_bpt
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getCube
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getModelCube
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getSpaxel
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getMap
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.getMapRatio
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.download
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.save
    marvin.tools.maps.Maps.restore

|
