docs/sphinx/tutorials/jupyter-notebooks.rst, before:


.. _marvin-jupyter:

Jupyter Notebooks
=================

.. _marvin-jupyter-new22:

What's New in Marvin 2.2
------------------------

This notebook briefly describes some of the new features seen in Marvin 2.2.

:download:`What's New in Marvin 2.2 <../jupyter/whats_new_v22.ipynb>`


What's New in Marvin 2.1
------------------------

This notebook briefly describes some of the new features seen in Marvin 2.1.

:download:`What's New in Marvin 2.1 <../jupyter/whats_new_v21.ipynb>`

Shanghai Workshop Tutorials
---------------------------

These notebooks were designed and used for the MaNGA Meeting and School in Shanghai in November 2016.  These are composed of
bits and pieces of the other notebooks, are a bit longer, with some additional material not yet covered in their own invididual notebooks.

Marvin Tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^
This notebook covers some basics of :ref:`marvin-tools` features, including Cube, Spaxel, Maps, ModelCube, and Bin.

:download:`Shanghai Demo Tools <../jupyter/Shanghai_Demo_Tools.ipynb>`

Marvin Queries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This notebook covers some basics of :ref:`marvin-query`, how to construct them, use them in your workflow, and convert the results
into Marvin Tools to utilize their functionality.

:download:`Shanghai Demo Queries <../jupyter/Shanghai_Demo_Queries.ipynb>`

First Steps Notebook
--------------------

This notebook takes you through the examples listed on the Marvin :ref:`marvin-first-steps` page.

:download:`First Steps Notebook <../jupyter/first-steps.ipynb>`

My First Query
--------------

This notebook takes you through how to use the Marvin queries.

:download:`Marvin Queries Notebook <../jupyter/my-first-query.ipynb>`


Query Results
----------------

This notebook describes what you can do with your query results once you have some.

:download:`Marvin Results Notebook <../jupyter/my_query_results.ipynb>`

Sub-Spaxel Queries
------------------

Also called DAP Zonal Queries. This notebook details a bit on how to perform queries on spaxel regions.

:download:`Spaxel Queries Notebook <../jupyter/dap_spaxel_queries.ipynb>`


DAP Maps
--------

This notebooks takes a look at the Marvin Maps object and its interface to the DAP MAPS product.

:download:`DAP Maps Notebook <../jupyter/dap_maps.ipynb>`


Saving and Restoring
--------------------

This notebook describes how you can save your Marvin objects, queries, and results to your local filesystem, using Python pickling,
and restore them any time later.

:download:`Saving and Restoring Notebook <../jupyter/saving_and_restoring.ipynb>`

Commit message:

adding new notebook directory; deprecating old one; updating sqla boolean tutorial

docs/sphinx/tutorials/jupyter-notebooks.rst, after:


.. _marvin-jupyter:

.. warning:: These notebooks are deprecated and should not be used.  Please see the notebooks in the :ref:`tutorial <marvin-tutorials>` section.


Jupyter Notebooks
=================

.. _marvin-jupyter-new22:

What's New in Marvin 2.2
------------------------

This notebook briefly describes some of the new features seen in Marvin 2.2.

:download:`What's New in Marvin 2.2 <../jupyter/whats_new_v22.ipynb>`


What's New in Marvin 2.1
------------------------

This notebook briefly describes some of the new features seen in Marvin 2.1.

:download:`What's New in Marvin 2.1 <../jupyter/whats_new_v21.ipynb>`

Shanghai Workshop Tutorials
---------------------------

These notebooks were designed and used for the MaNGA Meeting and School in Shanghai in November 2016.  These are composed of
bits and pieces of the other notebooks, are a bit longer, with some additional material not yet covered in their own invididual notebooks.

Marvin Tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^
This notebook covers some basics of :ref:`marvin-tools` features, including Cube, Spaxel, Maps, ModelCube, and Bin.

:download:`Shanghai Demo Tools <../jupyter/Shanghai_Demo_Tools.ipynb>`

Marvin Queries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This notebook covers some basics of :ref:`marvin-query`, how to construct them, use them in your workflow, and convert the results
into Marvin Tools to utilize their functionality.

:download:`Shanghai Demo Queries <../jupyter/Shanghai_Demo_Queries.ipynb>`

First Steps Notebook
--------------------

This notebook takes you through the examples listed on the Marvin :ref:`marvin-first-steps` page.

:download:`First Steps Notebook <../jupyter/first-steps.ipynb>`

My First Query
--------------

This notebook takes you through how to use the Marvin queries.

:download:`Marvin Queries Notebook <../jupyter/my-first-query.ipynb>`


Query Results
----------------

This notebook describes what you can do with your query results once you have some.

:download:`Marvin Results Notebook <../jupyter/my_query_results.ipynb>`

Sub-Spaxel Queries
------------------

Also called DAP Zonal Queries. This notebook details a bit on how to perform queries on spaxel regions.

:download:`Spaxel Queries Notebook <../jupyter/dap_spaxel_queries.ipynb>`


DAP Maps
--------

This notebooks takes a look at the Marvin Maps object and its interface to the DAP MAPS product.

:download:`DAP Maps Notebook <../jupyter/dap_maps.ipynb>`


Saving and Restoring
--------------------

This notebook describes how you can save your Marvin objects, queries, and results to your local filesystem, using Python pickling,
and restore them any time later.

:download:`Saving and Restoring Notebook <../jupyter/saving_and_restoring.ipynb>`
